Overall-

	Explored: Using an old DVD drive, a potentiometer, a dc motor driver and an arduino a controlable servo/arm structure can be created like the one demonstrated. two more of these can then be used to gain more interesting control over the octopus arm- and even linked with embedded motors to create specific motion.


	Vision: The goal going forward is to develop a library/archive of where useful electronic/mechanical components can be found and how they can be converted into useful robotics components. In this example, the gearing from the DVD drive and a potentiometer off of a controller were used to create a servo motor. There are many great examples of ewaste robotics projects, but there does seem to be a gap in the development of more specific components. The archive would offer a centralized open-source location for this conversation and development to happen. Starting with specific components allows for a wide range of uses that can be branched off from. Robotics components like actuators, sensors, communication, are all common across a wide range of applications. The goal is to help democritize the ability to develop robotics knowledge for significantly reduced cost and with the added benefit of re-using material.


	Pragmatics: Throughout the investigation of various e waste implementations, some things are clearly impractical to re-create from e-waste and in some cases the cons out weigh the pros. An old iMac g4 was investigated, and beyond the limitations of its powerpc architecture it also consumes more power for less compute than an off the shelf raspberry pi. In this case, there may be more negative enviromental impact as the processor of this device is significantly less effecient than modern processors. However, if accessibility is an issue then old windows based laptops could be used, and hopefully, other methods of precurring multi-thread capable processors could be investigated and introduced to the library. Some off the shelf items might be neccessary to have the tooling to further what is explored in this article. Things like: Flash chip programmers, JTAG/SWD debuggers, and logic analyzers would all be very useful. It may be possible to create these out of e-waste with significant time investment, but if the number of off the shelf components can be reduced to ultimately very re-usable tools this would be an improvement.

	The archive also serves as a method of reducing cost/consumption for existing projects, a situation may arise where a section of required components are accessible, but specific components may not due to lead times or geo-economic factors. Being able to reduce the cost as well as reduce the impact on the enviroment is always going to be desirable.

	Improvements: The current design uses an off the shelf arduino and an off the shelf dc motor driver. A potential method for using a CD drive as an arduino was explored, but further investigation needs to be done. With further investigation boards with exposed flash chips or JTAGS could be re-programmed to serve as an arduino-like board. Many of the DVD driver boards have data pins from the controller dirtectly connected from the ATA ports to the microprocessor. They also often have stepper motor drivers built in to control the linear and drive motors, with more tinkering and investigation it is likely one of these could be used to control the arm without the need for an arduino. The DC motor driver could be sourced from an RC car these very often have bi-directional speed variable drivers that can be used, it was not possible to find one for testing but looking at "tear down" videos on the internet, the circuitry seems very simple to reverse engineer and use for an application like this. 

